This lesson covers the Cron service,
the Crontab or
the Crontable format,
as well as the Crontab command.
If you need to repeat a tab Ask on
a schedule, you can use the cron service.
The cron service is a time based job
scheduling system that starts when
the system boots.
Every minute the cron service checks
to see if there are any scheduled jobs
to run, and if so, it runs them.
Cron jobs are often used to automate
a process or perform routine maintenance.
You can schedule cron jobs by
using the crontab command.
A Crontab or Crontable is
a configuration file that specifies when
commands are to be executed by Cron.
Each line in a Crontab represents a job
and contains two pieces of information.
One, when to run and two, what to run.
The time specification
consists of five fields.
They are minutes, hour, day of the month,
month and day of the week.
After the time specification you
provide the command to be executed.
This example Crontab Entry
runs every Monday at 7 am.
The command will only be
executed when all of the time
specification fields match
the current date and time.
You can specify that a command
be run only once, but
this is not the typical use case for Cron.
Typically, one or more of the time
specification fields will contain
an asterisk or a star which matches
any time or date for that field.
This job will run only when
the minute is 0, the hour is 7,
and the day of the week is 1.
In the day of the week field,
0 represents Sunday, 1 is Monday, etc.
This job will run on any day of the month,
and
during any month since the asterisk
was used for those two fields.
If any output is generated by the command
in a Cron job, it is mailed to you.
You can check your local
mail with the mail command.
If you would prefer not to get email,
you can direct the output of
the command as in this example.
You can provide multiple values for
each of the fields.
If you would like to run
a command every half hour,
you could use 0,30 in the minute field or
*/2.
You can even use ranges with a dash.
If you want to run a job every minute for
the first five minutes of the hour,
you can use 0-4 in the minutes field.
That job will get executed at the top of
the hour, zero minutes then one minute.
Two minute, three minute and
at the fourth minute running
a total of five times every hour.
There are several implementations of
the Cron scheduler, and some of those
implementations allow you to use
shortcuts and keywords in your Crontabs.
I'm gonna cover some common shortcuts,
but these may or
may not work on your Linux distribution.
The best thing to do is to man Cron and
check to see if these will work for you.
The @yearly shortcut means to
run once a year at midnight
on the morning of January 1st.
Annually is just the exact
same thing as yearly.
Monthly means run once a month at midnight
on the morning of
the first day of the month.
Weekly, run once a week at
midnight on the morning of Sunday.
Daily, run every day at midnight.
Midnight is the same thing as daily and
hourly means to run
once an hour at the beginning of the hour,
or at the top of the hour.
The Crontab command manipulates cron jobs.
You can use Crontab space file
to install the new Crontab
from the contents of that file.
To list your jobs, run crontab-l,
to edit them use crontab-e.
Note that crontab-e will invoke
the editor that's specified in
the editor environment variable.
Crontab dash r removes
all of your cron jobs.
If we run the Crontab dash l command
it should list our cron jobs, and
in this case I do not have any cron
jobs scheduled, so let's create one.
I'm just going to edit a file
with my favorite editor vi.
Any line that begins with an octothorpe or
a pound sign or a hash, or
whatever you want to call that,
is a comment.
This will be ignored and cell script so
it would be ignored by krone, etcetera.
Let's create a time specification.
So, zero minutes, seven for
the hour and one represent Monday and
we will put the command we want to run,
opt/sales/bin/weekly-report.
I'll save that to that file.
And we can install that file by
running crontab and the file name.
Now when we list our Cron jobs we'll
see that we have one Cron job.
Let's see, let's look at
the editor environment variable.
It's not set.
Let's set editor to vi.
Edit the crontab by running crontab -e.
And if I wanna disable this cron job for
instance, I could just comment it out.
Another way I can do that is run
crontab -r to delete my cron jobs.
And you can see that that removed them.
The cron service runs scheduled jobs.
You can manipulate those jobs
with the crontab command.